RAFT — Reusable Automation Framework for Testing
Business Capabilities Overview
What problem does it solve?
Testing modern applications requires validating APIs, databases, messaging systems, and user interfaces — all with consistent quality, fast feedback, and readable evidence for stakeholders. RAFT provides a single, unified framework that covers all of these from one codebase, written once and reused across every application team.

1. Human-readable test cases (BDD / Gherkin)
Tests are written in plain English that any stakeholder can read and verify — no Java knowledge required.


Scenario: Register a valid API key returns HTTP 200
  Given the "mosaic" API is available
  When I send a "POST" request to "/api/Config/apiKey?apiKey=MosaicService_apikey"
  Then the response HTTP status should be 200
  And the response root should match these values:
    | isSuccessStatusCode | true |
    | reasonPhrase        | OK   |
    | statusCode          | 200  |
Business value: Business analysts, product owners, and developers all read the same test. No translation layer. Tests act as living documentation of what the system does.

2. REST API testing — full coverage out of the box
Every type of API assertion is supported as a reusable step — no custom code per project:

Capability	Example step
Status code	Then the response HTTP status should be 200
Field value	And the response root should match these values:
Array contents	And the response array "root" should contain these records:
JSON schema	And the response should conform to schema "trade.json"
Response time SLA	And the response time should be under 500 milliseconds
Chain requests	When I extract "venue" from the response and store as "activeVenue"
POST with body file	When I send a "POST" request to "/api/..." with body from file "payload.json"
Custom headers	When I send a "GET" request to "/api/..." with header "X-Api-Key: abc"
Business value: A tester writing a new API test needs zero Java code. They write Gherkin, point to an endpoint, declare expected values. Done.

3. Auto-generate test cases from any Swagger/OpenAPI spec
The framework ships a CLI tool — point it at any Swagger URL and it generates a complete BDD feature file automatically, covering happy path, validation errors, authentication failures, and not-found cases for every endpoint.


./generate-bdd.sh --spec http://mosaiclnqa01:5000/swagger.json --output features/mosaic.feature
Business value: On-boarding a new API takes minutes, not weeks. Teams get instant baseline coverage the moment a new service publishes its Swagger spec.

4. Six test environments, zero code changes
Environment configuration (URLs, credentials, timeouts) is held in JSON files — one per environment. The running environment is passed at the command line.


mvn test -Denv=qa     # runs against QA
mvn test -Denv=dev    # runs against Dev

"apiServices": {
  "mosaic": { "baseUrl": "http://mosaiclnqa01:5000" },
  "stp":    { "baseUrl": "http://stplnqa01:8080"   }
}
Business value: The same test suite runs in Dev, QA, UAT, and Production without modification. One test, all environments.

5. Offline testing with embedded mocks
When a dependent service is unavailable (vendor API, downstream system in maintenance), the framework automatically falls back to an embedded WireMock server that simulates the real API. Tests keep running.

Business value: Development and testing are never blocked by service downtime or external dependencies. CI/CD pipelines stay green.

6. Windows Authentication (NTLM) support for corporate APIs
For APIs secured with Windows Integrated Authentication — common in corporate on-premise environments — credentials are passed as system properties with no code changes needed.


mvn test -Dstp.ntlm.username="DOMAIN\user" -Dstp.ntlm.password="pass" -Dstp.ntlm.domain="CORP"
Business value: The framework works with real corporate security — no test exemptions, no bypassed auth.

7. Test execution profiles — run exactly what you need
Command	What runs
@smoke	Critical path only — fast, runs on every commit
@regression	Full regression suite — runs nightly
@mosaic	Only Mosaic API tests
@stp	Only STP tests
not @wip	Everything except work-in-progress
Business value: Teams get the right feedback at the right speed. A commit check takes 2 minutes. A nightly full regression runs unattended.

8. Database validation — 4 databases supported
Test data can be read from or validated against Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, and PostgreSQL — all from a Gherkin step, no JDBC code required.

Business value: End-to-end tests can verify that an API call actually persisted data correctly to the database — not just that it returned HTTP 200.

9. Messaging system validation — Kafka, ActiveMQ, IBM MQ
The framework publishes and consumes messages from enterprise messaging platforms, enabling tests that validate event-driven flows.

Business value: For trading and settlement systems where business events flow through message queues, the framework can assert that the correct event was published with the correct payload.

10. Data pipeline testing — CSV filtering, joining, diff reporting
The framework can load CSV files, apply filter rules (greater than, starts with, equals, etc.), join multiple datasets relationally (inner, left, right, full), and produce a colour-coded HTML diff report showing exactly which rows differ.

Business value: Ideal for trade reconciliation, data migration validation, and ETL testing — without writing any SQL or Python scripts.

11. Rich failure reporting — expected vs actual always visible
When a test fails, the HTML report shows:

Which step failed — the exact Given/When/Then line
What went wrong — e.g. POST /api/Config/apiKey → FAILED: Connection refused
Field-by-field comparison table:
Field	Expected	Actual	Result
isSuccessStatusCode	true	false	FAIL
reasonPhrase	OK	OK	PASS
statusCode	200	200	PASS
Full stack trace inline, no log-diving needed
Response body attached to every request for post-run inspection
Business value: Defect triage is fast. A developer sees exactly what the API returned vs. what was expected — no need to reproduce manually or read logs.

12. Test history and trend tracking
Every test run is recorded with a run ID, timestamp, executor, pass/fail counts, and duration. Historical trend data accumulates over time.

Business value: Management can see whether test quality is improving or degrading over sprints. Flaky tests are identifiable by their pass-rate trend.

13. UI / Browser testing — Playwright
For user-facing applications, the framework uses Microsoft Playwright to drive real browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari) and assert page behaviour.

Business value: End-to-end journeys — from browser click to API response to database record — can all be asserted in one test scenario, covering the full business transaction.

14. Performance / SLA assertions built in
Response time limits are enforced as part of the test, not as a separate performance tool.


Then the response time should be under 500 milliseconds
Business value: Performance regressions are caught in the same pipeline as functional defects — before they reach production.

Summary
Dimension	Coverage
API testing	REST, JSON, schema, SLA, chaining, auth, mock fallback
Auto-generation	Full feature files from any Swagger/OpenAPI spec
Environments	Dev / QA / UAT / Prod — zero code changes
Databases	Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL
Messaging	Kafka, ActiveMQ, IBM MQ
Data validation	CSV filtering, relational joins, diff reports
UI testing	Playwright — Chromium, Firefox, WebKit
Reporting	Extent HTML reports, Allure, test history trends
Authentication	Bearer token, Basic, NTLM/Windows
Test selection	Smoke, regression, nightly, per-feature, per-tag
Failure evidence	Step-level error, expected/actual table, stack trace, response body
